---
title: Health
module: 2
---

# Health System

Having obstacles and collisions are cool, but we need a way to determine if anything has happened if they collide.

Let's add a health component.

1. Select the ship and click on **Add Component**.  Type **Health System Attribute** and select it to add the component to the ship.

2. Next, add a **UserInterface Prefab** to the Scene. **Hint** it's located in the **Assets**.

3. Run it.  Did it work?  Yes!

We need to connect the two objects somehow together.  There are a few more things we need to do. 

1. First, select the collision object.  

2. Then, click **Add Component** and type **Modify Health**.

3. Next, in the **Inspector** for the collision object, look at the top for the tag and change it from **unnamed** to **enemy**.

4. Select the Ship and change its tag from **unnamed** to **player**.

5. Now, run the project and see what happens.  

The health went down, but if you hit it twice, the health goes down again.  

1. Go back to the collision object and look for the **Modify Health** and check the **Destroy when Activated**.

2. Rerun it and see what happens. Did it work better? Great!

### To Do 

1. Think for 2-3 minutes about the importance of health and heads up displays.
2. Spend 2-3 minutes determining what happens if you leave the player and obstracle unnamed.
3. Spend 2-3 minutes changing the name of the player and obstacle to something else.
4. Spend 5 minutes discussing with a classmate your findings.  Why are the names important here?  *Hint* You might have to look at the code.
5.  Discuss with the class your findings.

