---
title: Prefabs
module: 10
jotted: true
---

# Using Environment Prefabs

We have built Level Geometry for you to be able to place where you wish. These can be found in Prefabs > Environment.

As an example, let’s drag a rock model into the scene:
In the Project window, go to Prefabs > Environment > Rock
Click on CliffBig01
Preview this model in the Preview Window at the bottom of the Inspector

Left-click and drag on the model in the Preview Window to rotate it and view it from different angles.
Tip: If you cannot see this window, click on the grey bar at the bottom of the Inspector and drag your mouse up.
A note on performance
As you spin the model around, you will see parts of the model are missing. This is normal because a lot of the geometry is missing the back. This makes larger scenes perform better and stop them from slowing your computer down.

The more geometry and special effects you add into your scene, the more your computer will need to process. On some machines, this can be incredibly large amounts of geometry and effects, while on others it can be very little. Keep this in mind when building your levels and, if your computer starts to slow down when you press play, you may need to remove some geometry.
We have used a few techniques like the above, to let you build as much as you can. The project will automatically detect your computer’s hardware and determine how much geometry and effects you can see and how detailed they are, similar to how PC games change settings depending on your computer. In the event you need to reset these settings or they do not set up automatically, go to Kit Tools>Auto Detect Quality Settings.

If you want to change these settings manually and see the breakdown of the settings go to Edit>Project Settings>Quality. This will open up the information in the Inspector for you adjust as you see fit.
Level of Detail
Another technique we use to improve performance is the use of LOD groups. LOD stands for Level of Detail. Low-detail meshes are shown when the object is far from the camera and the difference will not be noticed. This is because meshes with simpler geometry are less demanding on the hardware.
Let’s look at CliffBig01 as an example;
Drag CliffBig01 into the Scene view
In the Hierarchy, click on the arrow next to CliffBig01 to expose its children.

Click on each of the Children and watch them change in the scene view;
Here we can see the detail changing, we set each of these meshes to be displayed at different distances from the camera.
Click on the arrow next to CliffBig01 to collapse it
Make sure CliffBig01 is selected
In the Inspector look at the LOD Group Component

Here you can see which models will be displayed at what distance from the camera. You do not need to change these settings as we have set them all up for you. The LOD group distances will be different depending on the quality settings that have been automatically selected for you.
For more information on LOD Groups, you can see our Documentation

